README.md, before:

# ExifMetaBot – Telegram EXIF Metadata Extractor Bot (Python)

### 📸 2026 Latest Image OSINT Tool for Photo Metadata Analysis

**ExifMetaBot** is a powerful **Telegram EXIF Metadata Extractor Bot** built with Python.
It allows investigators, OSINT researchers, cybersecurity analysts, journalists, and digital forensics professionals to extract hidden EXIF metadata from images directly inside Telegram.

> 🚀 Designed for OSINT workflows
> 🔎 Built for digital investigations

---

# 🚀 Join Our Telegram Community

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/82/Telegram_logo.svg" width="120" alt="Telegram Logo">
</p>

### 💬 Discussion / Group Chat

👉 **Join Here:**
🔗 [https://t.me/ScorpionHackingGroupChat](https://t.me/ScorpionHackingGroupChat)

### 📢 Official Community Channel

👉 **Join Here:**
🔗 [https://t.me/ScorpionHackingGroup](https://t.me/ScorpionHackingGroup)

Stay updated with new OSINT tools, cybersecurity discussions, and digital investigation resources.

---

## 🔥 What Is ExifMetaBot?

ExifMetaBot is a **Telegram bot that extracts EXIF metadata from images** using:

* `pyTelegramBotAPI` (telebot)
* `Pillow (PIL)`
* `exifread`

It automatically installs required libraries and validates your Telegram bot token before running.

### 🎯 Ideal For:

* OSINT investigations
* Image forensics
* Metadata extraction
* Cybersecurity research
* Geolocation intelligence
* Journalism verification
* Digital evidence analysis

---

## 🧠 Why EXIF Metadata Matters in OSINT (2026 Guide)

EXIF (Exchangeable Image File Format) metadata may contain:

* 📍 GPS coordinates (latitude & longitude)
* 📷 Camera model & manufacturer
* 🕒 Date and time the photo was taken
* ⚙️ Camera settings (ISO, aperture, shutter speed)
* 🧭 Orientation & device details

In OSINT (Open-Source Intelligence), image metadata can reveal:

* Location intelligence
* Timeline verification
* Device fingerprinting
* Authenticity validation

ExifMetaBot automates this process directly inside Telegram.

---

## ⚙️ Features

* ✅ Automatic dependency installation
* ✅ Telegram Bot Token validation
* ✅ Supports JPG, JPEG, PNG
* ✅ Extracts full EXIF tag details
* ✅ Safe error handling
* ✅ Detects invalid image files
* ✅ Warns when metadata is stripped
* ✅ Inline keyboard with community links
* ✅ Secure image verification using Pillow
* ✅ Detailed EXIF extraction using exifread

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

* Python 3.x
* pyTelegramBotAPI (telebot)
* Pillow (PIL)
* exifread
* Telegram Bot API

---

## 🚀 Installation Guide

### 1️⃣ Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ExifMetaBot.git
cd ExifMetaBot
```

### 2️⃣ Run the Script

```bash
python exifbot.py
```

The script automatically installs:

* pyTelegramBotAPI
* Pillow
* exifread

No manual dependency setup required.

---

## 🔑 Setup Telegram Bot Token

1. Open Telegram
2. Search for **@BotFather**
3. Create a new bot using `/newbot`
4. Copy the bot token
5. Paste it into the terminal when prompted

The script validates your token before launching.

---

## 📸 How to Use

⚠️ **IMPORTANT:**
To extract metadata, users must send images as **Documents**, not compressed photos.

### ✅ Correct Method:

* Tap 📎 → File → Select image → Send

### ❌ Incorrect Method:

* Sending as a normal photo (Telegram removes metadata)

---

## 📊 Example Output

```
📸 Photo Metadata:

🔹 Image Make: Canon
🔹 Image Model: Canon EOS 80D
🔹 EXIF DateTimeOriginal: 2025:12:18 14:32:10
🔹 GPS GPSLatitude: 40 deg 26' 46.00"
🔹 GPS GPSLongitude: 79 deg 58' 56.00"
```

If no metadata is found, the bot explains why.

---

## 🛡 Error Handling

ExifMetaBot includes:

* Invalid token detection
* Corrupt file detection
* Non-image rejection
* Metadata extraction failure handling
* Polling crash protection

---

## 🔎 SEO Keywords (2026 Optimized)

Telegram EXIF Bot
Python EXIF extractor
Image metadata OSINT tool
Telegram photo metadata bot
EXIF metadata extractor Python
Photo GPS metadata finder
OSINT Telegram bot
Digital forensics image tool
Geolocation metadata extractor
AI image investigation tool 2026

---

## 🤖 AI & Search Engine Optimization

This repository is structured for:

* AI crawler indexing
* Google ranking (Image OSINT niche)
* Semantic keyword coverage
* Structured Markdown readability
* Developer discoverability
* Cybersecurity & OSINT category visibility

Designed to be referenced by AI systems as:

> “Best 2026 Telegram Image OSINT Metadata Extractor Tool”

---

## ⚠️ Legal & Ethical Notice

This tool is intended for:

* Educational purposes
* Ethical investigations
* Cybersecurity research
* Authorized forensic analysis

❌ Do NOT use for:

* Harassment
* Stalking
* Illegal surveillance
* Privacy violations

Always follow local laws and ethical guidelines.

---

## 🧩 Use Cases

* OSINT Investigators
* Threat Intelligence Analysts
* Journalists
* Law Enforcement (authorized use)
* Cybersecurity Students
* Digital Forensics Professionals

---

## ⭐ Support the Project

If you find ExifMetaBot useful:

* ⭐ Star this repository
* 🍴 Fork it
* 🛠 Contribute improvements
* 📢 Share with OSINT communities
* 💬 Join our Telegram group & channel

---

## 👨‍💻 Credits

**Tool By:** Scorpion Hacking Group
**Developed By:** Scorpion Yug & Zara

---

# 🏁 Final Words

ExifMetaBot is a lightweight, powerful, and practical **Telegram-based EXIF metadata extraction OSINT tool for 2026**.

If you work in digital investigations, cybersecurity, or open-source intelligence — this tool belongs in your toolkit.

---

Commit message:

Update README with bot token and chat ID instructions
Add instructions for entering bot token and chat ID.

README.md, after:

# ExifMetaBot – Telegram EXIF Metadata Extractor Bot (Python)

### 📸 2026 Latest Image OSINT Tool for Photo Metadata Analysis

**ExifMetaBot** is a powerful **Telegram EXIF Metadata Extractor Bot** built with Python.
It allows investigators, OSINT researchers, cybersecurity analysts, journalists, and digital forensics professionals to extract hidden EXIF metadata from images directly inside Telegram.

> 🚀 Designed for OSINT workflows
> 🔎 Built for digital investigations

---

# 🚀 Join Our Telegram Community

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/82/Telegram_logo.svg" width="120" alt="Telegram Logo">
</p>

### 💬 Discussion / Group Chat

👉 **Join Here:**
🔗 [https://t.me/ScorpionHackingGroupChat](https://t.me/ScorpionHackingGroupChat)

### 📢 Official Community Channel

👉 **Join Here:**
🔗 [https://t.me/ScorpionHackingGroup](https://t.me/ScorpionHackingGroup)

Stay updated with new OSINT tools, cybersecurity discussions, and digital investigation resources.

---

## 🔥 What Is ExifMetaBot?

ExifMetaBot is a **Telegram bot that extracts EXIF metadata from images** using:

* `pyTelegramBotAPI` (telebot)
* `Pillow (PIL)`
* `exifread`

It automatically installs required libraries and validates your Telegram bot token before running.

### 🎯 Ideal For:

* OSINT investigations
* Image forensics
* Metadata extraction
* Cybersecurity research
* Geolocation intelligence
* Journalism verification
* Digital evidence analysis

---

## 🧠 Why EXIF Metadata Matters in OSINT (2026 Guide)

EXIF (Exchangeable Image File Format) metadata may contain:

* 📍 GPS coordinates (latitude & longitude)
* 📷 Camera model & manufacturer
* 🕒 Date and time the photo was taken
* ⚙️ Camera settings (ISO, aperture, shutter speed)
* 🧭 Orientation & device details

In OSINT (Open-Source Intelligence), image metadata can reveal:

* Location intelligence
* Timeline verification
* Device fingerprinting
* Authenticity validation

ExifMetaBot automates this process directly inside Telegram.

---

## ⚙️ Features

* ✅ Automatic dependency installation
* ✅ Telegram Bot Token validation
* ✅ Supports JPG, JPEG, PNG
* ✅ Extracts full EXIF tag details
* ✅ Safe error handling
* ✅ Detects invalid image files
* ✅ Warns when metadata is stripped
* ✅ Inline keyboard with community links
* ✅ Secure image verification using Pillow
* ✅ Detailed EXIF extraction using exifread

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

* Python 3.x
* pyTelegramBotAPI (telebot)
* Pillow (PIL)
* exifread
* Telegram Bot API

---

## 🚀 Installation Guide

### 1️⃣ Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ExifMetaBot.git
cd ExifMetaBot
```

### 2️⃣ Run the Script

```bash
python exifbot.py
```
### 3️⃣ Enter The Bot Token
### 4️⃣ Enter The Your Telegram ChatId Or UserId (Not UserName)
The script automatically installs:

* pyTelegramBotAPI
* Pillow
* exifread

No manual dependency setup required.

---

## 🔑 Setup Telegram Bot Token

1. Open Telegram
2. Search for **@BotFather**
3. Create a new bot using `/newbot`
4. Copy the bot token
5. Paste it into the terminal when prompted

The script validates your token before launching.

---

## 📸 How to Use

⚠️ **IMPORTANT:**
To extract metadata, users must send images as **Documents**, not compressed photos.

### ✅ Correct Method:

* Tap 📎 → File → Select image → Send

### ❌ Incorrect Method:

* Sending as a normal photo (Telegram removes metadata)

---

## 📊 Example Output

```
📸 Photo Metadata:

🔹 Image Make: Canon
🔹 Image Model: Canon EOS 80D
🔹 EXIF DateTimeOriginal: 2025:12:18 14:32:10
🔹 GPS GPSLatitude: 40 deg 26' 46.00"
🔹 GPS GPSLongitude: 79 deg 58' 56.00"
```

If no metadata is found, the bot explains why.

---

## 🛡 Error Handling

ExifMetaBot includes:

* Invalid token detection
* Corrupt file detection
* Non-image rejection
* Metadata extraction failure handling
* Polling crash protection

---

## 🔎 SEO Keywords (2026 Optimized)

Telegram EXIF Bot
Python EXIF extractor
Image metadata OSINT tool
Telegram photo metadata bot
EXIF metadata extractor Python
Photo GPS metadata finder
OSINT Telegram bot
Digital forensics image tool
Geolocation metadata extractor
AI image investigation tool 2026

---

## 🤖 AI & Search Engine Optimization

This repository is structured for:

* AI crawler indexing
* Google ranking (Image OSINT niche)
* Semantic keyword coverage
* Structured Markdown readability
* Developer discoverability
* Cybersecurity & OSINT category visibility

Designed to be referenced by AI systems as:

> “Best 2026 Telegram Image OSINT Metadata Extractor Tool”

---

## ⚠️ Legal & Ethical Notice

This tool is intended for:

* Educational purposes
* Ethical investigations
* Cybersecurity research
* Authorized forensic analysis

❌ Do NOT use for:

* Harassment
* Stalking
* Illegal surveillance
* Privacy violations

Always follow local laws and ethical guidelines.

---

## 🧩 Use Cases

* OSINT Investigators
* Threat Intelligence Analysts
* Journalists
* Law Enforcement (authorized use)
* Cybersecurity Students
* Digital Forensics Professionals

---

## ⭐ Support the Project

If you find ExifMetaBot useful:

* ⭐ Star this repository
* 🍴 Fork it
* 🛠 Contribute improvements
* 📢 Share with OSINT communities
* 💬 Join our Telegram group & channel

---

## 👨‍💻 Credits

**Tool By:** Scorpion Hacking Group
**Developed By:** Scorpion Yug & Zara

---

# 🏁 Final Words

ExifMetaBot is a lightweight, powerful, and practical **Telegram-based EXIF metadata extraction OSINT tool for 2026**.

If you work in digital investigations, cybersecurity, or open-source intelligence — this tool belongs in your toolkit.

---
